Filling out the yt4 diffs docs page (#3232)
yt-project/yt: doc/source/yt4differences.rst

Converting Old Scripts to Work with yt 4.0
------------------------------------------

After installing yt-4.0, you’ll want to change your old scripts in a few key
ways. After accounting for the changes described in the list below, try

> running your script. If it still fails, the callback failures in python
> are fairly descriptive and it may be possible to deduce what remaining

Reviewer: I wouldn't *guarantee* their clarity. Note that the native error messages in Python 3.10 received a nice polishing, though even with Python 3.10, getting an error message from >=3 levels bellow the function you're using is usually not that helpful, and a common occurence in my experience of the ecosystem, yt in particular.
```suggestion
running your script. If it still fails, the Python tracebacks
should be fairly descriptive and it may be possible to deduce what remaining
```

changes are necessary. If you continue to have trouble, please don’t hesitate
to :ref:`request help <asking-for-help>`.

> The list below is arranged in order of most important changes to least
> important changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The list below is arranged in order of most to least important changes.
```

* **Fields should be specified as tuples not as strings**
  In the past, you could specify fields as strings like ``"density"``, but
  with the growth of yt and its many derived fields, there can be sometimes
  be overlapping field names (e.g., ``("gas", "density")`` and
  ``("PartType0", "density")``, where yt doesn't know which to use.  To avoid
  these issues moving forward, please explicitly specify the full tuple form
  of all fields. Just search for all field accesses in your scripts, and

>   replace strings with tuples (often just prefix your string with ``("gas",``).

Reviewer: Sctricly applied, your "prefixing" introduce syntax errors (unmatched parenthesis). I tried to rephrase it.
```suggestion
  replace strings with tuples (e.g. replace ``"a"``  with ``("gas", "a" )``).
```

  There is a compatibility rule in yt-4.0 to allow strings to continue to work
  until yt-4.1, but you may get unexpected behavior.  See our :ref:`fields`,
  and :ref:`available field list <available-fields>` documentation for more
  information.
* **Neutral ion fields changing format**
  In previous versions, neutral ion fields were specified as
  ``ELEMENT_number_density`` (e.g., ``H_number_density`` to represent H I
  number density).  This led to a lot of confusion, because some people assumed
  these fields were the total hydrogen density, not neutral hydrogen density.
  In yt-4.0, we have resolved this issue by explicitly calling total hydrogen
  number density ``H_nuclei_density`` and neutral hydrogen density
  ``H_p0_number_density`` (where ``p0`` refers to plus 0 charge).  This syntax
  follows the rule for other ions: H II = ``H_p1`` = ionized hydrogen.  Change
  your scripts accordingly.  See
  `YTEP-0003 <https://ytep.readthedocs.io/en/latest/YTEPs/YTEP-0003.html#molecular-and-atomic-species-names>`_

>   describing field names for more information.

Reviewer: Wow, I'm surprised YTEP 0003 needs to be documented here. Wasn't it implemented in yt 3.6 already ?

Author: Was it?  I thought this was only on dev.  I'm not sure it's widely known that this has changed, but maybe I'm just checked out.

Reviewer: Well the YTEP itself says that it was implemented and apparently the source file has been stable for over 5 years.

Author: Well, the change to deprecating `H_number_density` as a field is only very recent.  That's what this note is all about, so I'm just making sure people know that.  I've changed the reference to the fields docs rather than the ytep.

Reviewer: excellent

* **Change in energy and momentum field names**
  Fields representing energy and momentum quantities are now given names which

>   reflect their dimensionality. For example, the ``"gas", "kinetic_energy"``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  reflect their dimensionality. For example, the ``("gas", "kinetic_energy")``
```

  field was actually a field for kinetic energy density, and so it has been

>   renamed to ``"gas", "kinetic_energy_density"``. The old name still exists

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  renamed to ``("gas", "kinetic_energy_density)"``. The old name still exists
```

  as an alias as of yt v4.0.0, but it will be removed in yt v4.1.0. See
  :ref:`deprecated_field_names` below for more information.

>   Other examples include ``"gas", "specific_thermal_energy"`` for thermal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Other examples include ``("gas", "specific_thermal_energy")`` for thermal
```

>   energy per unit mass, and ``"gas", "momentum_density_x"`` for the x-axis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  energy per unit mass, and ``("gas", "momentum_density_x")`` for the x-axis
```

  component of momentum density. See :ref:`efields` for more information.
* **Deprecated field names**
  Certain field names are deprecated within yt v4.0 and will be removed in

>   yt v4.1. For example, ``"gas", "kinetic_energy"`` has been renamed to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  yt v4.1. For example, ``("gas", "kinetic_energy")`` has been renamed to
```

>   ``"gas", "kinetic_energy_density"``, though the former name has been added

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ``("gas", "kinetic_energy_density")``, though the former name has been added
```

>   as an alias. Other fields, such as ``"gas", "cylindrical_tangential_velocity_absolute"``,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  as an alias. Other fields, such as ``("gas", "cylindrical_tangential_velocity_absolute")``,
```

  are being removed entirely. When the deprecated field names are used for the
  first time in a session, a warning will be logged, so it is advisable to set

>   your logging level to ``WARNING`` at a minimum to catch these.

Reviewer: good advice. Maybe throw in a link to the page explaining how to do that.

Converting Old Scripts to Work with yt 4.0
------------------------------------------

After installing yt-4.0, you’ll want to change your old scripts in a few key
ways. After accounting for the changes described in the list below, try
running your script. If it still fails, the Python tracebacks
should be fairly descriptive and it may be possible to deduce what remaining
changes are necessary. If you continue to have trouble, please don’t hesitate
to :ref:`request help <asking-for-help>`.

The list below is arranged in order of most to least important changes.

* **Fields should be specified as tuples not as strings**
  In the past, you could specify fields as strings like ``"density"``, but
  with the growth of yt and its many derived fields, there can be sometimes
  be overlapping field names (e.g., ``("gas", "density")`` and

>   ``("PartType0", "density")``, where yt doesn't know which to use.  To avoid
>   these issues moving forward, please explicitly specify the full tuple form
>   of all fields. Just search for all field accesses in your scripts, and
>   replace strings with tuples (e.g. replace ``"a"``  with ``("gas", "a" )``).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  ``("PartType0", "density")``, where yt doesn't know which to use.  To remove
  any ambiguity, it is now strongly recommended to explicitly specify the full tuple form
  of all fields. Just search for all field accesses in your scripts, and
  replace strings with tuples (e.g. replace ``"a"``  with ``("gas", "a" )``).
```

  There is a compatibility rule in yt-4.0 to allow strings to continue to work

>   until yt-4.1, but you may get unexpected behavior.  See our :ref:`fields`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  until yt-4.1, but you may get unexpected behavior.  Any field specifications that are ambiguous will throw an error in future versions of yt.  See our :ref:`fields`,
```
